---
layout: blog
topic: "07"
short-topic: All that legal stuff...
due-date: 2019-03-06
root: ../../
---

## Prompt:

The `DESCRIPTION` file of a package contains the package's meta information. Most of the fields in this file are quite straight forward - such as author, version number, and a short package description. When you call `library(help="<package name>")` for  package `<package name>` you can see the contents of the `DESCRIPTION` file for that package (and some parts of the `NAMESPACE` file).

Read through the chapter on [metadata](http://r-pkgs.had.co.nz/description.html) from Wickham's book on R packages. 

Here, we want to focus on the use of licenses in R packages.
There are several important aspects to consider when choosing a license for your work. 
Three of the main questions to answer are: 

1. Are you and your collaborators fine with other people modifying your work and then sharing the modified work?

2. Are you and your collaborators fine with other people making a profit from those derivations?

3. Who is responsible if your software does not do what it promises to do?


Write a blog post addressing the following questions: 

1. **Under what license does R operate?**
2. **Answer the three questions listed above for the licenses: MIT, GPL-3,  LGPL-3, and CC-0. Note that some of the questions might not be answered with a simple yes/no. In that case, go into more detail, but do not just copy the terms of the license.**
3. **Assume that you are in the process of making a package for your own graduate work. Describe considerations that come into play in deciding on a license. In case you are not quite at that stage in your graduate studies yet, come up with a likely scenario. Describe it and discuss.**

Go to [https://github.com/Stat585-at-ISU/blog-2019](https://github.com/Stat585-at-ISU/blog-2019) for instructions about how to prepare and submit your blog post.


{% assign num_posts = site.blog | size %}
{% if num_posts > 0 %}
## Class posts:

<ul>
{% for post in site.blog %}
  {% if page.topic == post.topic %}
  <li><a href="{{ post.url }}">{{ post.title }} by {{ post.author }}</a></li>
  {% endif %}
{% endfor %}
</ul>
{% endif %}
