---
layout: blog
topic: "08"
short-topic: "It's magick!"
due-date: 2019-03-13
root: ../../
---

## Prompt:

Image files come in all kinds of formats. There's png, tiff, svg, pdf, just to name a few. What's the difference, and how can we work with them?

Reading: 

  - Identify online sources to read up on differences between image file formats. 

  - The `magick` package allows us to work with raster images in R. Read through the  [magick vignette](https://cran.r-project.org/web/packages/magick/vignettes/intro.html) to learn about the package's functionality.

Write a blog post answering the following questions and detailing the progress: 

1. **Describe the difference between formats png, svg, and pdf. State your sources with (working!) links** (take a look at the RMarkdown cheatsheet for RStudio to learn how to make working links). **Make one plot in ggplot2 and save it (using R code) in each of the three file formats you discussed. Comment on the differences you observe in their usage.**
2. **Use `magick` functionality to create an image to be used for a hex sticker.**  package `hexSticker` can help you to get started on dimensions of the sticker. **Include all code necessary to produce your sticker.** In case you are using local images, post those in a folder on **your** website and use the URL to link to them.


Go to [https://github.com/Stat585-at-ISU/blog-2019](https://github.com/Stat585-at-ISU/blog-2019) for instructions about how to prepare and submit your blog post.


{% assign num_posts = site.blog | size %}
{% if num_posts > 0 %}
## Class posts:

<ul>
{% for post in site.blog %}
  {% if page.topic == post.topic %}
  <li><a href="{{ post.url }}">{{ post.title }} by {{ post.author }}</a></li>
  {% endif %}
{% endfor %}
</ul>
{% endif %}
